---
title: People
layout: default
toc: Contacts
subtoc: People
---

### The GAP Group

Many people have helped in different ways to develop the GAP system, to
maintain it, and to provide advice and support for users. All of these
are refered to as the 'GAP Group'.

### GAP Authors

The page [GAP Authors](authors.html) lists people who have at various
times written code for the kernel or library of GAP. We have collected
this list to the best of our knowledge, but we apologize for any
omissions. It should be understood that some of these contributions date
back to the beginning of the GAP project and may not even be any longer
part of the present distribution.

### Package and data library authors and maintainers

The scope of the GAP system has also been significantly enhanced by the
many packages and data libraries that have been provided by users of GAP
for both, GAP 4 and GAP 3. Since the authors and maintainers of these
contributions are named with each of the packages or data libraries,
respectively, we do not keep a separate list of all these names (see
[Packages]({{ site.baseurl }}/Packages/packages.html),
[Data Libraries]({{ site.baseurl }}/Datalib/datalib.html),
[GAP 3 Share Packages]({{ site.baseurl }}/Gap3/Packages3/packages.html),
and
[GAP 3 Data Libraries]({{ site.baseurl }}/Gap3/Datalib3/datalib.html)).

### Support Group

Since the first release of GAP there have always been some people
answering the many questions and requests sent by users either to the
[GAP Forum]({{ site.baseurl }}/Contacts/Forum/forum.html) or
to <support@gap-system.org>. On a special page we list as the GAP
[Support Group](supportgroup.html) the names of those who at present are
most involved in this help.

### The GAP Council

Since 1995 a number of senior mathematicians and computer scientists,
engaged in a broad spectrum of areas in computational group theory have
agreed to form a '[GAP Council](Council/council.html)' that advises on
broad policy issues in the continued development of GAP.
