---
title: Forum
layout: default_with_title
parent: Contact
has_children: true
permalink: /forum/
nav_order: 2
---

We have established a GAP Forum, where interested users can discuss GAP
related topics by e-mail. In particular this Forum is for questions and
comments of **general** interest about GAP. We will read this Forum and
answer questions and comments. Of course others are also invited to
answer questions, etc.

If a serious bug is found in the sense that it leads to wrong results
that cannot be easily recognized as such, a report on this bug will be
made to the Forum. We will also announce future releases of GAP on this
Forum.

So in order to be informed about bugs and their fixes as well as about
additions to GAP and to be able to take part in discussions in the Forum
we recommend that you **subscribe** to the GAP Forum.

### Subscribing and posting to the Forum

To subscribe to the Forum, to change your email address for
correspondence with the Forum, or to leave the Forum, please use the
[web page](https://lists.uni-kl.de/gap/info/forum) provided for this
purpose. Alternatively, you can subscribe to the Forum by sending an
email to <sympa@gap-system.org> with subject "`subscribe forum`".
Similarly, to unsubscribe, send an email to the same address with
subject "`unsubscribe forum`". For a list of further commands, send an
email to the same address with the subject "help".

Note: To post to the address <forum@gap-system.org> of the GAP Forum and
to receive the letters written in the Forum you **must** be subscribed
**and** the mail must originate from the same address (the 'From:'
field) by which you are subscribed to the Forum. This is a safety
feature to avoid junk mail filling the list.

If you change your email address first unsubscribe from the old address
and resubscribe from the new address.

### The Forum Archive

All correspondence in the Forum is kept in the GAP
[Forum Archive]({{ site.baseurl }}/forum/archive/).

### GAP Support

If you require human help, but your request is likely not to be of
interest to most other Forum members, please do not write to the GAP
Forum, but send mail to <support@gap-system.org>.

Also if you believe you have noticed a bug, please send a
[bug report]({{ site.baseurl }}/issues/) to
<support@gap-system.org>. We will read your report, investigate the
supposed bug, and inform you of the result of the investigation. If it
turns out that indeed you noticed a bug it will be fixed and, if it
turns out that the bug is serious in the sense that it leads to wrong
results that cannot be easily recognized as such, a report on this bug
will be made to the Forum. If possible, a fix will be published in the
GAP Forum.

### Other Fora

For **theoretical questions** on groups and related structures we like
to point to the
[Group-Pub-forum](https://people.bath.ac.uk/masgcs/gpf.html) in which
such questions are answered and discussed by a large community of
experts.
